In my years of education, from elementary school to now, grades have been a comparison game for me. I have always striven to do my best, not always for my own learning, but mostly to be the best, whatever that means. I am very competitive, and thus grades give me a ranking system. This has not always been in my favor, as I hope to outline.

When I think back to elementary school, I thought of myself as one of the highest achieving kids in my class. I did all the optional homework assignments to gain extra credit, and as a general rule of thumb went above and beyond wherever possible. The driving force behind this was to become 6th grade valedictorian, which I was in the close running with several other students. I missed the mark, ranking 8th in my class, something that I was somewhat ashamed about, which is a terrible thing to be in elementary school.

The same sort of thing kept up throughout most of high school, although I was able to get to a point where grades didn’t have a huge bearing for me. I enrolled in college classes to help further my academic career. Those seven or eight classes were some of the most enjoyable classes that I have ever had. I knew that the grades I received in them would have no impact on my high school, nor on my eventual undergraduate GPA. This allowed me to dedicate as much, or as little, time as I desired to, and in turn, to learn as much as I wanted to.

That experience gave me a new perspective on life. I think back to several English courses where I poured myself into my writing, exploring new ways to write and new subjects to cover. I excelled in those courses because I was passionate about them. However, the entire journey was not so glorious. During my final high school semester, I enrolled in Calculus II, a course commonly known to be incredibly difficult. Being a senior, I did not have much intention to try very hard. I have always been good at math, so I assumed I didn’t need to try very hard. In this I was terribly mistaken. I floundered in the class, barely passing with C, something I had never done before.

The greatest lesson that I learned from that experience is that grades do not matter as much as I thought they did. Being the best student in terms of grades has little to no real-world implications. Employers may care about GPA, but they care more about your skill set, your ability to work with others, etc. This has shifted my focus into expanding my career network and exposing myself to hard things without the constant fear of failure hanging over my head. It is my desire that in this course I can learn as much as possible about writing code in R with others. I feel this is very doable because we are encouraged to put ourselves out there and fail.

